    A common circumstance I encounter is processing feedback in indeterminate systems. In a dynamic simulation, variables inform the procession of model states as the variables themselves develop. Say, for example, that I want the volume of an expanding solid to have an inverse correlation with its growth rate. In other words, as the solid grows, its growth rate slows.
	
    Essentially, variables are informing other variables. In some systems, resources are fluid and theoretically infinite, like a pipe or arterial vessel. During its normal function, it is a passageway for matter. However, if there is buildup within the passage, the function of the greater system which it is a part of will be altered.

    Macro-organs, like blood vessels, seem to have simplistic duties compared to their micro-counterparts. On a small scale, chemical reactions constantly rend micro-organs and rebuild them, in a way that would be disturbing to witness happening to organs on a macro-scale. Yet the behavior of organs on the macro scale is a direct result of this unseen behavior driven by chemical reactions and transformation of energy.

	At the establishment of a fluid-transportation system, it has two aspects: the purpose of the system and its own health. Its health has to do with its ability to operate in a way that is understood to be the \'93good\'94 or \'93normal\'94 way for it to operate. Interestingly, in microbiology, it is not really possible to determine the purpose of any bio-strategy outside of the context of the maintenance of the complex and repetitive reactions which is called \'93living\'94. Any divination of purpose aside from this is speculative.\
	Any system is borne of circumstances which yield its existence. Somehow, entiti-hood is a discernible quality of systems and items. In a way, it is the only quality of them, though it is constructed of unique parts for every instance of every thing. I do not believe it is worthwhile, here and for me at least, to reflect for too long on the phenomenon of individuality and the activity of discretization. If I was to try to cover it briefly, I would say imagine a cell, and a cell wall; imagine a walled city set in the land around it. The distinction is clear. It is so natural for us to distinguish differences that it can be a hindrance in certain pursuits, e.g., attempting to describe the topic of this piece of writing.\
	Prescribing intention and purpose to the properties of matter, from the perspective I am attempting to embody, is futile. It may seem like the spilt honey has desire, it may feel as though the honey wants badly to spread and ruin the cover of my open book, but none of that is true. The honey does not have desire, even though it may feel like it does. It only seems that way to me, and sympathy with honey is not in my repertoire.\
	But maybe honey sympathy is in my repertoire. After all, if I am only matter the way that honey is matter, and we both do particular things in different circumstances, and if we both have behaviors, then how am I to deny that I have a certain type of honey sympathy?\
	Perhaps my two axioms for now are a.) an intuitive understanding of dependence and independence, b.) the prescription of traits such as desire, purpose and intent to items and circumstances.

	My aqueduct has a problem. Aqueous flora, mineral deposits and silt buildup constrict the water\'92s passage at several points along its course. Lately, my bath has been taking twice as long to fill, and I need to use one and a half times as much wood to heat the water since it has more time to cool before my water basin that I like to go into is full. This means that one of my servants has less time to peel shrimp, which means I have to assign another one of my servants to shrimp peeling, and now she has less time to read, which makes her upset, which makes everyone in my house upset, and now there is an air of dis-ease in my house.\
	Problems have solutions, but my purpose for this scenario is to illustrate how one system meant for a single task is difficult to separate from its context and cause to work in its purest manner. If I were to model a system, I would say that there are variables, and changes to variables causes the state of the system to change.\
	Id\'99efining the behavior of a simulated dynamical system requires partitioning information commensurate with what the system should clarify. Programs analyzing force or diffusion in materials may consider some of the behavior of particles on a very minute scale, but there is always a limit, and the magnitude of data in silica does not begin to approach the real world, especially in organic scenarios. To be effective, a model\'92s purpose must only be to predict the behavior of entities in particular conditions, regardless of the actual mechanics of that process on an arbitrary scale. If the behavior of groups of actors is predictable, a model can be made. Somebody might call this \'93emergent behavior\'94 because it concerns a result borne from an aggregate of autonomous or semi-autonomous actors. I don\'92t personally care for the term \'93emergent behavior\'94. It\'92s too cool, too concise, too fetishistic. It packs a wonderful field of thought into a term that seems hand-picked to impress as many people as possible with as little effort as possible.\
	Perhaps I am a purist, but I prefer something much drier, and hopefully more specific.\
\
	Considering all of this, it seems reasonable to state that organic tissue growth relies on certain principles which yield an observable result. I am modeling a system which reproduces a speculative observable result, usually without attempting to reproduce the actual chemical dynamics of my target phenomena. I believe that cells divide and multiply, then somehow they become arranged in ways that form tissue. The substance for organic tissue is a product of some wort of metabolism, which is a system not unlike an aqueduct, although components are broken down into more basic chemical composition for use in the body along the way.}